[Music]
So my Rich Dad said in the world of business
there's "E's" and "E" stand for employees
and employees he says you can always tell
who they are
by their core values and what they employee
whether the president or the janitor of the
company
will always say the same words
the words are
I'm looking for a safe secure a job
with benefits
that's what makes them an employee
because their core values are security
the other other one of the four is the "S"
or the small business owner or the self-employed
and again their core values
will cause them to use the same words which
are
if you want it done right, do it by yourself
"S" means they're also solo
but generally one person act
will operate by themselves
On the right side of the quadrant are the
"B's"
and what rich dad said the B's stood for
was big business or like Bill Gates
Forbes defines big businesses
500 employees or more
and their words are different
yes, I'm looking for a good system, a good
network and the smartest people I know
to help run my business
so they're unlikely "S"
they don't want to run the company by themselves
they want smart people to run their companies
for them
And then the fourth of a quadrant is the "I"
And "I" stands for investor
these are people who have money work hard
for them
These people are people have people work hard
And these are the people that work hard for
the rich here
so early on in my life
It was my my poor dad
Who always said to me
you know Robert go to school and get a high
paying job
and so my poor dad's core value was to be
an employee
he wanted job, security, promotions
a steady paycheck and all this
And so it was my rich dad who said to me
You know Robert if you really want to be rich
learn to build businesses
it made more sense to him
to work hard to build a business
something you owned
and something you'd pass on
for generation to generation to your kids
whereas my poor dad said work hard
but my Rich Dad said why would you work hard
for something you'll never own
and get fired from right away
again that was the difference in values
so my Rich Dad suggested I learned how to
be a business owner
and learn how to be an investor
and that's one of the big differences
on this side of the quadrant, these people
here work for security
they work for money also,
On this side over here
their key value that they want is they want
"Freedom"
they don't want to have to work at a job anymore
they don't want to have to work for the rest
of their lives
so the beauty of building a business and learning
how to invest
is very simply that this is passive income
you work hard for a few years
but possibly for the rest of your life
income keeps flowing to you
when you look..
at a financial statement
let's say this is this is Income, Expense,
Assets, Liability
okay
and as I explained in Rich Dad Poor Dad
your house is not an asset
so basically is most people have a house they
think as an asset
but every month is costing them money
through a thing called a mortgage payment
that's why they're broke
so what makes a person rich like what makes
me rich
is very simply I have
assets such as businesses I have the Rich
Dad business
Every month lots of money comes in
I also have real estate
I also have stocks and bonds and I have commodities
such as I am a partner in oil companies
and every month the cash flows into me
so this is the model of a rich person
so whether I work or not money comes in
okay and that's what makes me rich
Most people all they have is a mortgage payment,
car payment
college loan payments and all that
that's a poor person okay
So what makes the same thing that makes a
rich person rich
and what makes a well-designed business rich
is that as a sophisticated investor
let's say this is a rich business
when I wrote the business plan for Rich Dad
Poor Dad
this company now is that
I had to design in assets
So, one of the biggest light one of the biggest
assets rich net has
is we are a brand
and we license our name
so all over the world
there's about 60 people who every month send
me money
it was designed into the business plan
for example
with Rich Dad Poor Dad
Every month people like in Japan,
and China and Asia and Europe
every month they send me money
the second thing is every time I write a book
every month money comes in
when I design, my board game every month money
comes in
and whatever what else we have?
well we have seminars more money comes in
So every month, the business of Rich Dad gets
richer
and richer because we're constantly
setting up more assets
follow one course till you're successful
and so that's what I did in 1973
I signed up for my first real estate investment
course
and I just did it and did it and did it
You know I bought this one little $18,000
place
and I did it again
And I did it again and I did it again
until the point where I understood it
and then I went into becoming an entrepreneur
and I did it and I did it
and did it I'm still learning and
I'm still learning about real estate
and the reason In 1966 I got into oil
when I went to work for the Standard Oil Company
so today I'm still focusing
I invest in oil and oil and oil
and I don't diversify you know
doesn't mean they don't lose sometimes I'm
loose, sometimes I make mistakes and all this
but I just don't buy good
as with all the bad
if you're going to be successful as an investor
depend of
diversification is good for the average investor
that's what you want to be
Have a good life
but what I'd rather do is be able to know
the good ones
from the bad ones, the good investments from
the bad investments
the good advisors
from the bad Advisors
and what's good for me
and what's not good for you
because what I do is not necessarily what's
going to work for you
and vice versa here
So that's why I really think
instead of diversification or diversifying
the new rules of money say follow one course
until you're successful and then keep doing
it
because once you find that way of being successful
You can do it again
and again and again
Hi this video will continue playing in just
a few seconds
but first I want to let you know about a
special announcement from Robert Kiyosaki
Robert is running a special online rich Dead
summit
where you're going to discover
Seven ways to create a sustainable,
passive income for life
so that you can work less, earn more
and finally escape the rat race
you'll be given the tools, strategies, tips
and blueprints
that you need for making more money
and setting up systems that let your money
make more money
it's incredible
and the great news is that you
can have full online access to this
incredible life-changing system for just $1
simply follow this link or write it down
and type it in after watching this video
so that's www.richdad-summit.com
I make a lot of money but I give a lot
you know what I mean
it goes to biblical principle, the more you
give
the more you receive
so when I meet somebody who's not doesn't
have any money
it just means that they're not giving something
yeah
you know, so a lot of times
there's people who would like more
but they're not giving anything
so they're like my poor dad
you know he belonged to the labor unions and
he wanted to work less and get paid more
Well that's anti-religious to me
yeah
if you want to get paid more
work more, give more that's how I see it
you know my first investment was a little
18,000
dollar condo in Hawaii and
I made a lot earning 25 dollars a month
I didn't make much money on that deal
but every time I did an investment
be at real estate or business I got smarter
because experience makes you smarter
so I started with just a little $18,000 unit
I broke up my credit card
I paid the $2,000 down payment with my credit
card
so the 100% financed
now most experts will tell you
that's stupid you don't do that but uh
but if you know what you're doing you can
do it
a number of years ago I bought a 7 million
dollar
commercial building I paid for it with zero
down
and every month after everything is paid for
it puts about $30,000
a month income in my pocket
or three hundred sixty thousand dollars a
year
for no money down
so there is the price of having a good education
or a bad education
A good education is knowing
the good debt versus bad debt
and how debtors can win
if you know what you're doing
one of the things you say is that the poor
pay their bills first
the rich pay themselves first
that's a tough that's a really tough one
but it makes people kind of crazy
Yeah
because the owner from richest man Babylon
says pay yourself first
but what most people do is
they pay the bills first and they never pay
themselves anything
and that's a discipline I had to get into
was I always pay myself first
even when I had no money
and would have all these bill collectors
calling me I use them as inspiration
you know what I mean
Really?
oh when they're how the government's hounding
you
bill collectors calling
because I've been broke
so I can understand what it feels like to
be broke
when those guys are calling you instead
of you know shrinking and going into the shell
and eating my pizza
I use it as motivation to go out
and make more money
so I used it I used my bill collectors as
motivation
and that's why I paid myself first
even though sometimes I
What would you pay yourself?
I was bought assets, I'd buy a house
or I'd put money in the bank
of things like this but it was just a habit
Exactly what's you're talking about
It's up here
it's about changing the way you think, that
was the whole book is about
that's it, because because we're our biggest
asset
We're also a biggest liability
We are..
Yeah, we are..
I know, i read that
So if you're gonna say work hard
most people are working hard for earned income
and that's what these guys are working for
the trouble with earned income in America
your tax rates approximately fifty percent
or as Warren Buffett says
it's a shame that his secretary
pays a higher percentage in taxes
and he did although he makes billions of dollars
So when you say to a child
go to school and get a safe secure job
you're telling them work for earned income
the worst type of income
the second type of income is portfolio income
and today as I speak and they're trying to
change this
It's about 20 percent
and portfolio income is generally known as
capital gains
So if I buy a stock for ten dollars
and I sell it for 50 dollars
the forty dollar gain is taxed at 20%
or if I buy a house for a hundred thousand
I sell it for two hundred thousand
that's a capital gains type event
so you pay a lot of tax for that
and the third type of income which is the
which is the best type of income
Excuse me I can't spell again is passive income
and this is income that just comes in on a
regular basis
One of the reasons I am wealthy
and is able to retire at a young age
is because I worked hard for passive income
not earned income
I don't flip real estate generally
not portfolio income
I don't flip stocks
I want passive income
so today the new rules of money
is important to understand
what are you going to school to become "E"
- "S"
Entrepreneur or Investor
and what kind of income you're working hard
for earned, portfolio or passive
and if you know what you're doing
you can pay zero pratence percent taxes legally
and this can be done
all over the world
kept saying
We can't do it in my country
Well..
These people can't do it in any country
but in most parts of the world
governments need these people
so they're always giving tax incentives for
for investors and business owners who are
for passive income
So those are some of the new rules of money
You've really got to know
what you're working hard at
and what kind of work are you performing
what kind of income are you working hard for
Thank you for watching this incredible
video from Robert kiyosaki
I now have a special
announcement to make
you're about to discover seven ways to
create a sustainable passive income for
life so that you can work less earn more
and finally escape the rat race
introducing the rich dead summit at www.richdad-summit.com
you're about to be given the tools,
strategies, tips and blueprints you need
for making more money
and setting up systems that let your money
make more money and the great news is that
you can have full online access
to this incredible life-changing
event for just $1
so simply follow the link below
www.richdad-summit.com for full access
I highly recommend the system
[Music]